DOCSP-35193-new Install with Confluent Cloud Deployment method (#106)
mongodb/docs-relational-migrator: source/installation/kafka-deployments/install-confluent-kafka.txt

   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 1
   :class: singlecol

> You can install Relational Migrator with Kafka using 

Author: Great point, thank you!

`Confluent Cloud <https://docs.confluent.io/cloud/current/get-started/confluent-cloud-basics.html#ccloud>`__. 
This deployment method provides the reliability of Kafka without having to 
manage your own Kafka cluster. 

Before you Begin
----------------

Due to restrictions by Confluent, you are only able to use Basic, Standard, and 
Dedicated clusters. For most use cases, the basic and standard cluster are enough 
to handle migrating large volumes of data.

Steps
-----

.. procedure::
   :style: normal 

   .. step:: Create a Confluent Cloud environment

      Go to `Confluent Cloud <https://www.confluent.io/>`__ and create a new environment. 

> 

Reviewer: **Suggestion**

Not sure if we want to actively advertise for CC, but it might be worth a mention that you can get started without a paywall / credit card on the free tier /30 days?

Author: Going to look into seeing if we can add this!

   .. step:: Enable schema registry

      Enable schema registry and select a region.

      If you have more than 1000 tables to migrate, use the Advanced schema registry tier.
      Otherwise, the Essentials tier is enough. 

   .. step:: Create a cluster

      Navigate to your :guilabel:`Environment` page to click :guilabel:`Add Cluster`. 

      For most use cases, the Basic and Standard tier clusters are enough. If you 
      are migrating large volumes of data, consider the Dedicated cluster tier.

   .. step:: Configure and gather permissions and API keys

      To configure Relational Migrator, you must configure and gather the following 

>       permissions and API keys to include them in your ``user.properties`` file:

Author: Updated.

      The following API keys are found in the Confluent Cloud console. For more 
      information see, `Use API Keys <https://docs.confluent.io/cloud/current/access-management/authenticate/api-keys/api-keys.html>`__.

      .. procedure::

         .. step:: Configure Confluent Cloud API keys

            Click the :icon-fa5:`bars` icon on the top right corner, then under 

>             :guilabel:`Administration`, select :guilabel:`Cloud API Keys`.

Reviewer: **Praise**

Nice use of the icons here, this really helps users locate the correct spot in the UI!

            Create Confluent Cloud API keys and configure permissions for them. You 
            have two permission options:

            1. Create global access.
         

>             2. Create a service account with granular access.

Reviewer: **Suggestion**

I believe 1. is mentioned for testing environments and 2. is recommended for production, would you consider adding a sentence or fragment advising on this point?

Author: I am going to check in with David on this to confirm and if so I will go ahead and add!

               If you create a service account, you must add the ``Operator`` role for the 
               environment and the ``CloudClusterAdmin`` role to the cluster. 

>             Save these configurations to add to your ``user.properties`` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            Once created save the API key and secret these values will be added to your ``user.properties`` file as `migrator.confluent.cloud-credentials.api-key` and `migrator.confluent.cloud-credentials.api-secret`.
```

Author: Updated.

            For more information, see `Use API Keys to Control Access in Confluent Cloud 
            <https://docs.confluent.io/cloud/current/access-management/authenticate/api-keys/api-keys.html>`__. 

         .. step:: Configure Kafka cluster API keys

            To access your Kafka cluster, you must configure your Kafka cluster API keys. 
            Navigate to your :guilabel:`Cluster Overview` and on the left-side navigation 
            click :guilabel:`API Keys` to create your Kafka cluster API keys.

>             Save these configurations to add to your ``user.properties`` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            Once created save the API key and secret these values will be added to your ``user.properties`` file as `migrator.confluent.kafka-credentials.api-key` and `migrator.confluent.kafka-credentials.api-secret`.
```

Author: Updated.

            For more information, see `Use API Keys to Control Access in Confluent Cloud 
            <https://docs.confluent.io/cloud/current/access-management/authenticate/api-keys/api-keys.html>`__.

   .. step:: Gather more configuration information

      The following information is found in the Confluent Cloud console. For more 
      information see, `Confluent Cloud Documentation 
      <https://docs.confluent.io/cloud/current/overview.html>`__.

      .. procedure::

         .. step:: Find and save your environment ID 

            From your :guilabel:`Environments` overview page, choose your 
            cloud environment, and find your environment ID below the environment name 

>             on the right-side panel. 

Reviewer: Just a slight consistency tweak, we have been using pane throughout the docs:
```suggestion
            on the right-side pane. 
```

Author: Updated.

            The general environment ID form is:

            .. code-block::

               env-ab1cde

         .. step:: Find and save your cluster ID

            Navigate to your :guilabel:`Cluster Overview` page and find your cluster ID 

>             on the right-side information panel. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            on the right-side information pane. 
```

Author: Updated.

            The general cluster ID form is:

            .. code-block::

               abc-1test2

         .. step:: Find and save your cluster's Bootstrap server

            From your :guilabel:`Cluster Overview` page, use the left-side navigation and 
            click :guilabel:`Cluster Settings`. On the :guilabel:`Cluster Settings` page, 
            locate your cluster's Bootstrap server.

            The general Bootstrap server form is:

            .. code-block::

>                xx.region.provider.confluent.cloud:9092

Reviewer: ```suggestion
               xxx-xxxxx.region.provider.confluent.cloud:9092
```

Author: Updated.

         .. step:: Find and save your cluster REST endpoint

            On your :guilabel:`Cluster Settings` page, find your cluster's REST 
            endpoint.

            The general REST endpoint form is:

            .. code-block::

>                https://xxx.region.provider.confluent.cloud:443

Reviewer: ```suggestion
               https://xxx-xxxxx.region.provider.confluent.cloud:443
```

Author: Updated.

   .. step:: Add the configuration properties to your ``user.properties`` file

      The location of your ``user.properties`` file varies according to your operating
      system. For more information, see :ref:`file-location`. 

      Use the following example to add the configuration properties to your 
      ``user.properties`` file:

      .. code-block::

>          spring.profiles.active: confluent-dev

Reviewer: **Question**

Will this always be `confluent-dev` or simply `confluent`?

```suggestion
         spring.profiles.active: confluent-dev
```

Author: It was actually updated to `confluent` so I it has also been updated here now!

         migrator.confluent.environment.environment-id: <Environment ID>
         migrator.confluent.environment.cluster-id: <Cluster ID>
         migrator.confluent.environment.bootstrap-server: <xx.region.provider.confluent.cloud:9092>
         migrator.confluent.environment.rest-endpoint: <https://xxx.region.provider.confluent.cloud:443>

         migrator.confluent.cloud-credentials.api-key: <Cloud API key>
         migrator.confluent.cloud-credentials.api-secret: <Cloud API Secret>

         migrator.confluent.kafka-credentials.api-key: <Cluster API key>
         migrator.confluent.kafka-credentials.api-secret: <Cluster API Secret>

   .. step:: Restart Relational Migrator 

      Exit Relational Migrator and relaunch it. 

   .. step:: Confirm successful installation

      Start Relational Migrator and in your project, navigate to the :guilabel:`Data 
      Migration` tab. If the installation is successful, on the top right corner, a 
      :guilabel:`Confluent Deployment model` symbol is present. 

      If errors appear, check your ``log`` file. Your ``log`` file is located in an 
      OS specific location. For more information, see :ref:`Relational Migrator File 

>       Locations <file-location>`.

Reviewer: **Suggestion**

I also mention the Confluent errors as part of the PR your reviewing for me, you might want to link to the monitor a sync job page, once that is merged for an example of the errors:

https://github.com/mongodb/docs-relational-migrator/pull/105/files#diff-fd8cacce2301855fca6e281a317b67ac32ab2d77ad29bcb5ccd1fad506c6dfc3R160-R167

Author: I added the TODO here like we discussed to link out once both PR's are merged.

   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 1
   :class: singlecol

You can configure Relational Migrator with Kafka using 
`Confluent Cloud <https://docs.confluent.io/cloud/current/get-started/confluent-cloud-basics.html#ccloud>`__. 

> This deployment method provides the reliability of Kafka without having to 

Reviewer 2: Consider, 

"Configuring Relational Migrator with Confluent Cloud gives your deployment the reliability of Kafka without requiring that you manage your own Kafka cluster."

Author: Updated.

manage your own Kafka cluster. 

Before you Begin
----------------

- You must have Relational Migrator installed on your machine. To download 
  Relational Migrator, see the `Download Center 
  <https://www.mongodb.com/try/download/relational-migrator>`__.

> - Due to restrictions by Confluent, you are only able to use Basic, Standard, and 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Because of Confluent's restrictions, you can only use Basic, Standard, and 
```

Author: Updated.

  Dedicated clusters. For most use cases, the basic and standard cluster are enough 
  to handle migrating large volumes of data.

Steps
-----

.. procedure::
   :style: normal 

   .. step:: Create a Confluent Cloud environment

      Go to `Confluent Cloud <https://www.confluent.io/>`__ and create a new environment. 

   .. step:: Enable schema registry

>       Enable schema registry and select a region.

Reviewer 2: [question] As the user, how do I do this?

Author: This window appears after you create your environment, so as a user you do not have to click through anything. After you finish the first step it automatically prompts you to do this.

      If you have more than 1000 tables to migrate, use the Advanced schema registry tier.
      Otherwise, the Essentials tier is enough. 

   .. step:: Create a cluster

>       Navigate to your :guilabel:`Environment` page to click :guilabel:`Add Cluster`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      Navigate to your :guilabel:`Environment` page. Click :guilabel:`Add Cluster`. 
```

Author: Updated.

>       For most use cases, the Basic and Standard tier clusters are enough. If you 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      The Basic and Standard tier clusters are enough for most use cases. If you 
```

Author: Updated.

      are migrating large volumes of data, consider the Dedicated cluster tier.

   .. step:: Configure permissions and gather API keys

>       To configure Relational Migrator, you must configure and gather the following 

Reviewer 2: Instead of "the following," state the names of things. 

"... configure and gather the Confluent Cloud and Kafka cluster API keys. You'll need to include them in your..."

Author: Updated.

      permissions and API keys to include them in your ``user.properties`` file.
      The location of your ``user.properties`` file varies according to your operating
      system. For more information, see :ref:`file-location`. 

      The following API keys are found in the Confluent Cloud console. For more 

>       information see, `Use API Keys <https://docs.confluent.io/cloud/current/access-management/authenticate/api-keys/api-keys.html>`__.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      information, see `Use API Keys <https://docs.confluent.io/cloud/current/access-management/authenticate/api-keys/api-keys.html>`__.
```

Author: Updated.

      .. procedure::

         .. step:: Configure Confluent Cloud API keys

>             Click the :icon-fa5:`bars` icon on the top right corner, then under 

Author: Updated.

>             Click the :icon-fa5:`bars` icon on the top right corner, then under 

Author: I had added a note before these steps that they were in the Confluent Console but if you think it is more understandable and visible, I can make the note on each step instead like the above example.

            :guilabel:`Administration`, select :guilabel:`Cloud API Keys`.

            Create Confluent Cloud API keys and configure permissions for them. You 
            have two permission options:

            1. Grant global access.
         
            2. Create a service account and grant granular access.

               If you create a service account, you must add the ``Operator`` role for the 
               environment and the ``CloudClusterAdmin`` role to the cluster. 

>             Once created, save the API key and secret. These values will be added to your 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            Once created, save the API key and secret. These values are added to your 
```

Author: Updated.

            ``user.properties`` file as ``migrator.confluent.cloud-credentials.api-key`` 
            and ``migrator.confluent.cloud-credentials.api-secret``.

            For more information, see `Use API Keys to Control Access in Confluent Cloud 
            <https://docs.confluent.io/cloud/current/access-management/authenticate/api-keys/api-keys.html>`__. 

         .. step:: Configure Kafka cluster API keys

            To access your Kafka cluster, you must configure your Kafka cluster API keys. 

>             Navigate to your :guilabel:`Cluster Overview` and on the left-side navigation 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            Navigate to your :guilabel:`Cluster Overview'. In the left-side panel, 
```

Author: Updated.

            click :guilabel:`API Keys` to create your Kafka cluster API keys.

>             Once created, save the API key and secret. These values will be added to your 

Author: Updated.

            ``user.properties`` file as ``migrator.confluent.kafka-credentials.api-key`` 
            and ``migrator.confluent.kafka-credentials.api-secret``.

            For more information, see `Use API Keys to Control Access in Confluent Cloud 
            <https://docs.confluent.io/cloud/current/access-management/authenticate/api-keys/api-keys.html>`__.

   .. step:: Gather more configuration information

>       The following information is found in the Confluent Cloud console. For more 

Reviewer 2: As above, let's avoid "the following." Also, let's avoid passive voice. Consider, 

"You'll find your environment ID, cluster ID, Bootstrap server, and cluster REST endpoint in the Confluent Cloud console."

Author: Updated.

>       information see, `Confluent Cloud Documentation 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      information, see `Confluent Cloud Documentation 
```

Author: Updated.

      <https://docs.confluent.io/cloud/current/overview.html>`__.

      .. procedure::

         .. step:: Find and save your environment ID 

            From your :guilabel:`Environments` overview page, choose your 

>             cloud environment, and find your environment ID below the environment name 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            cloud environment. Your environment ID is below the environment name 
```

>             on the right-side pane. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            in the right-side panel. 
```

            The general environment ID form is:

            .. code-block::

               env-ab1cde

         .. step:: Find and save your cluster ID

            Navigate to your :guilabel:`Cluster Overview` page and find your cluster ID 

>             on the right-side information pane. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            in the right-side information panel. 
```

Author: Updated.

            The general cluster ID form is:

            .. code-block::

               abc-1test2

         .. step:: Find and save your cluster's Bootstrap server

            From your :guilabel:`Cluster Overview` page, use the left-side navigation and 
            click :guilabel:`Cluster Settings`. On the :guilabel:`Cluster Settings` page, 
            locate your cluster's Bootstrap server.

            The general Bootstrap server form is:

            .. code-block::

               xxx-xxxxx.region.provider.confluent.cloud:9092

         .. step:: Find and save your cluster REST endpoint

>             On your :guilabel:`Cluster Settings` page, find your cluster's REST 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            On the :guilabel:`Cluster Settings` page, find your cluster's REST 
```

Author: Updated.

   .. step:: Add the configuration properties to your ``user.properties`` file

      The location of your ``user.properties`` file varies according to your operating
      system. For more information, see :ref:`file-location`. 

      Use the following example to add the configuration properties to your 
      ``user.properties`` file:

      .. code-block::

         spring.profiles.active: confluent
         migrator.confluent.environment.environment-id: <Environment ID>
         migrator.confluent.environment.cluster-id: <Cluster ID>
         migrator.confluent.environment.bootstrap-server: <xx.region.provider.confluent.cloud:9092>
         migrator.confluent.environment.rest-endpoint: <https://xxx.region.provider.confluent.cloud:443>

         migrator.confluent.cloud-credentials.api-key: <Cloud API key>
         migrator.confluent.cloud-credentials.api-secret: <Cloud API Secret>

         migrator.confluent.kafka-credentials.api-key: <Cluster API key>
         migrator.confluent.kafka-credentials.api-secret: <Cluster API Secret>

   .. step:: Restart Relational Migrator 

      Exit Relational Migrator and relaunch it. 

   .. step:: Confirm successful installation

>       Start Relational Migrator and in your project, navigate to the :guilabel:`Data 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      Start Relational Migrator. In your project, navigate to the :guilabel:`Data 
```

Author: Updated.

manage your own Kafka cluster. 

Before you Begin
----------------

- You must have Relational Migrator installed on your machine. To download 
  Relational Migrator, see the `Download Center 
  <https://www.mongodb.com/try/download/relational-migrator>`__.

- Due to restrictions by Confluent, you are only able to use Basic, Standard, and 
  Dedicated clusters. For most use cases, the basic and standard cluster are enough 
  to handle migrating large volumes of data.

Steps
-----

.. procedure::
   :style: normal 

   .. step:: Create a Confluent Cloud environment

      Go to `Confluent Cloud <https://www.confluent.io/>`__ and create a new environment. 

   .. step:: Enable schema registry

      Enable schema registry and select a region.

      If you have more than 1000 tables to migrate, use the Advanced schema registry tier.
      Otherwise, the Essentials tier is enough. 

   .. step:: Create a cluster

      Navigate to your :guilabel:`Environment` page to click :guilabel:`Add Cluster`. 

      For most use cases, the Basic and Standard tier clusters are enough. If you 
      are migrating large volumes of data, consider the Dedicated cluster tier.

>    .. step:: Configure and gather permissions and API keys

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   .. step:: Configure permissions and gather API keys
```

      To configure Relational Migrator, you must configure and gather the following 
      permissions and API keys to include them in your ``user.properties`` file.
      The location of your ``user.properties`` file varies according to your operating
      system. For more information, see :ref:`file-location`. 

      The following API keys are found in the Confluent Cloud console. For more 
      information see, `Use API Keys <https://docs.confluent.io/cloud/current/access-management/authenticate/api-keys/api-keys.html>`__.

      .. procedure::

         .. step:: Configure Confluent Cloud API keys

            Click the :icon-fa5:`bars` icon on the top right corner, then under 
            :guilabel:`Administration`, select :guilabel:`Cloud API Keys`.

            Create Confluent Cloud API keys and configure permissions for them. You 
            have two permission options:

>             1. Create global access.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            1. Grant global access.
```

Author: Updated.

>             2. Create a service account with granular access.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            2. Create a service account and grant granular access.
```

Author: Update.
